	Of Mice and Men: A Story of Hopes, Dreams, and the Heartbreak of Life

	A classic story of two men walking through the West of America during the Great Depression, wishing for a simple life on their own farm, with themes of friendship, perseverance, dreams, and the sad realities that life can bring to the table. Of Mice and Men, by John Steinbeck is a classic that millions have read in their English classes over the years. Steinbeck has many strong talents as a writer, one of them being his ability to use the scenes of violence and death in the story to illuminate to the reader Lennie’s character, despite his appearance and aggressive actions, that in his heart he is a good person, but can still do bad things.
	In the death scenes throughout the story, John Steinbeck shows that although life is valuable and treasured, it is fragile and should be cherished while it lasts. This is shown best when he kills the puppy. Lennie cherishes the puppy, but when he killed it, Steinbeck shows Lennie distraught over it, and trying not to take the blame. He thinks to himself, “Why do you got to get killed? You ain’t so little as mice. I didn’t bounce you hard.” (Steinbeck, 85). He is trying to convince himself that he did not do anything wrong, and showing the reader that the cute little puppy had the same fate of death, even though Lennie cared for it. He is also devasted over the consequences he is concerned might occur because of this. “[Lennie] sat bent over his knees and he whispered, ‘Now I won’t get to tend the rabbits. Now [George] won’t let me.” (85). The manslaughter of Curly’s wife also brings this message to light. Curly’s wife invited Lennie to stroke her hair and show him how soft it is, for some reason. After a few seconds she says, “Look out, now, you’ll muss it up” (90), and then starts jerking her head sideways and screaming for Lennie to let go. This is such a small issue, blown completely out of proportion, and climaxes in her death. This shows the reader how fragile life can really be, that this small issue could have been avoided but instead it took her life. Not only this, but because of these events, Curly is, rightfully, furious at Lennie, and orders the men to hunt him down. This then results in Lennie’s death, showing how the issue snowballed, leaving two people dead, when she could have just asked Lennie to stop stroking her hair instead of screaming and jerking her head. This one slipup led to all the years of her life ending. Life is short and sweet. If you are not careful, or if you do not value it enough while it lasts, then you will regret it when it’s gone.
	Lennie, although being strong and intimidating, his heart is always in the right place and does not believe that violence is an answer to the problem. Instead, he wishes for a simple, peaceful life tending rabbits with George. Lennie’s violence was a result of his lack of and control and was not purposeful. When the puppy and Curly’s wife were killed, Lennie never had a premeditated thought beforehand, and the author shows him grieving and being regretful of his actions, saying “I done a bad thing.” When he gets in a fight with Curly, his intent was never to fight him. “Lennie was still smiling with delight at the memory of the ranch.” (62) Curly misinterprets his smile, thinking that Lennie is laughing at him. “Curly’s rage exploded. ‘Come on, ya big bastard. Get up on your feet. No big son-of-a-bitch is gonna laugh at me. I’ll show ya who’s yella.’” (62) Lennie never wanted to fight him, and when Curly starts punching him, he starts crying for George to help. Instead, George yelled “‘Get him, Lennie. Don’t let him do it.’” (63) Lennie then crushes Curly’s hand, even though he never wanted to, George’s command to fight back was just enough for Lennie to snap and fight back. Lennie’s wishes were only to live a simple peaceful life tending rabbits. When Lennie is fighting Curly, the reason the fight started in the first place was because of his zoning-out, thinking of what his life could be in his and George’s dreams. Even at Lennie’s final breaths, he was still talking and visioning about his life with George and tending the rabbits.
	“‘Go on,’ said Lennie. ‘How’s it gonna be? We gonna get a little place.’
	“‘We’ll have a cow,’ said George. ‘An’ we’ll have maybe a pig an’ chickens… an’ down the flat we’ll have a… little place afalfa---’
	“‘For the rabbits,’ Lennie shouted.
	“‘For the rabbits,’ George repeated.
	“‘And I get to tend the rabbits.’
	“‘An’ you get to tend the rabbits.’
	“Lennie giggled with happiness. ‘An’ life on the fatta the lan’.’
	“‘Yes.’” (105)
	“George raised the gun and steadied it, and he brought the muzzle of it close to the back of Lennie’s head. The hand shook violently, but his face set and his hand steadied. He pulled the trigger. The crash of the shot rolled up the hills and rolled down again. Lennie jarred, and then settled slowly forward to the sand, and he lay without quivering.” (106) And thus, Lennie was dead. His lack of control sealed his fate. He never got to tend the rabbits, and he never got to live out his dream on the farm with George.
	Of Mice and Men is a complicated and layered work of storytelling that Steinbeck delivers to the reader through these various methods of writing and character development that make the book a 3-dimensional experience to read.